The last video of this week is dedicated to clean-up and caching.  I think it is very important, but sometimes we miss it due to the parts of the procedural pipeline.  In the process of work, we usually create a lot of groups of attributes that can interfere with us later, and may not interfere.  Therefore, it is useful to know how to delete them after we have used them.  This also reduces the size of cached objects.  Clean-up is always important, because your setups will often be transferred to other artists.  They should have the opportunity to be comfortable in your setup, without wasting much time.  As the network progresses, it will become more complicated.  And after a certain period of time, and definitely at the end, you will save parts of the setup,  so that you do not have to constantly perform the same processes.  For this, several nodes are used.  You can use the Alembic Rope Output node.  Rope means Render Operator.  Another option is Geometry.  Or FBX.  Or there is even a USB option, if you want.  Well, we have already seen the process of creating a network.  In this case, I will save as an Alembic.  Let's delete everything else.  Oh, and I also added the wrong node.  This is already the input node, and I need the Alembic Output node.  Although I also need this node, I will leave it.  I will only add the Alembic Output node.  This is the Alembic Output Rope node.  And now in the Output node we need to choose a path to save.  What can you do? You can copy this path, as we did before.  And here put a relative link.  And this means that if we change the path here,  then here, when importing, the path will also change.  And here we can also change the path.  And when we import the object back,  the path will automatically be the same.  Although we have it here normally spoiled,  because the option Alembic Delayed Load Primitives is selected.  Then we will discuss what this means,  while just giving a little more time.  And now we will see how to create a network.  And here we will see how to create a network.  And here we will see how to create a network.  How to save a Cynthia High cathode node.  Here we can save.  And this says state.  Rescrolling...  At this point, all nodes are ready to be saved.  We can simply copy this path to the Alembic node.  And we only need to make it stop.  In this case, Dale may not know the path.  But can just connect the path to the Alembic Output node  The difference is that if we turn on the flag of visibility somewhere on another node and go up,  the output node will always show us the result of this network.  If we have null at the end, then nothing will change at the top.  If I turn on the flag on some other node and go out, then we will not see the result of the network.  But in general, any of these two nodes will do, the main thing is that you have a flag of visibility  correctly installed. Let's look at some more ways to organize the structure of nodes.  One of the most effective ways that we will consider in more detail later is subnet.  Subnet or subnetwork is a container with inputs and outputs. This means that you can take some  set of nodes and place them in one node, in subnet. And this will simplify our work. If we take,  for example, everything except the input curve, and a little later I will explain why, you can press this  subnet button and everything will be collected inside.  And what's great about this subnet is that it has a lot of inputs. This means that everything that we connect to  these inputs will be carried out through this subnet. If we go here, then we see that here we also  have access to these four inputs. In this case, everything that connects to the first input  will come out of here and be transferred to the first node. This is the basis for creating assets.  As we progress, we will still have lessons on creating assets. We will consider this process in more detail.  And there are still a few ways to maintain the frequency in these networks. You can use network boxes. This is this button.  You, again, select several nodes, press this button and you can call pillars. And now we know  what nodes columns create. You can even somehow paint these boxes. There is such a button  that opens the palette. We can choose any color. And of course, you can also change the color of the  nodes. You can also change their shape. There is a palette with different shapes.  In general, these were the methods of organizing the network. Now I want to delete all the extra attributes  and groups before we save the geometry. For this we need two nodes. One of them is the attribute delete.  Another group delete.  If I click the middle button on the node to see the attributes, we will see here the name,  p is the position, there is a class and there are still groups of column points. In the atrib delete node, we also  see these existing attributes in the lists. If we want to delete all, we can just enter an asterisk in this field.  And the same with the group node.  Here in the group node in the list we see existing groups. If we want to delete all, we just  enter asterisks. This means that at the end we will only have a position. And maybe the position is normal.  If we look here, then here the geometry takes 123 kilobytes. And if we save and delete the  group and attributes, and now check the size, it has decreased to 100 kilobytes. Yes, of course, there is a  small difference here, because we have a small object, but in a huge scene such a removal,  these recommendations will help make the object much easier and this will therefore speed up the rendering of the  scene, and so on and so on. It is always useful to remember such little things. Well, that's it,  we're ending the first week on this. I go upstairs, I can call it a wall. And now I will divide the view so that  you can see what is happening. I have an asset here that creates columns.  And now I go inside and save.  And again I will return to the Merge node.  I will highlight the input points with a curve. I can move them. And I get such an interactive wall.  Well, it turned out, of course, not perfect, but it works well. And this gives us a good basis for understanding  what we will do next. Well, that's it, I think we will end the first week on this. We studied  a lot of new things. We studied the basis for creating procedural tools and the basis for manipulating  geometry. Over the next seven weeks, we will delve into these topics and create some interesting things.  As for homework, you will need to work with these setups, try different examples  that I showed, try to change the number of columns, change the number of bricks,  make windows instead of doors and so on. So far, we are just starting to get used to what we  discussed for the first week so that we can use it in the future. 